TITLE: Leeds United F.C.
== INFOBOX ==
Full name: Leeds United Football Club |
Nickname: The Whites |
Founded: 17 October 1919; 106 years ago (17 October 1919) |
Ground: Elland Road |
Capacity: 37,633 |
Owner: 49ers Enterprises |
Chairman: Paraag Marathe |
Manager: Daniel Farke |
League: Premier League |
2025–26: Premier League, 14th of 20 |
Website: leedsunited.com |
Home colours
: 
Away colours
 
Third colours
 |
== LEAD ==
Leeds United Football Club is a professional football club based in Leeds, West Yorkshire, England. The club competes in the Premier League, the top tier of English football.

Leeds United have won three top-flight league titles, one FA Cup, one League Cup, two Charity Shields and two Inter-Cities Fairs Cups. The club had their most successful period under the management of Don Revie in the 1960s and 1970s. The club have also been runners-up five times in the top flight, three times in the FA Cup, once each in the League Cup, the Charity Shield, the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup, the Cup Winners' Cup and the European Cup.

Leeds United share rivalries with Manchester United and Chelsea. The team's traditional kit colours are white shirts, white shorts and white socks. Their badge features the White Rose of York, which is a symbol of Yorkshire.
== STADIUM SECTION (h2): Stadium ==
[edit]
Main article: Elland Road
Elland Road, 2013
Leeds United's home ground since their formation has been Elland Road, situated in Beeston, Leeds, West Yorkshire, England, it is the 14th largest football stadium in England and was previously occupied by their predecessors Leeds City before their disbanding. Leeds City Council allowed them to rent the stadium until they could afford to buy it. With the exception of periods from the 1960s until 1983, and from 1997 to 2004, the local council owned the stadium. However, it was sold by the club in October 2004, with a 25-year sale-leaseback deal being agreed, and a commercial buy-back clause also included for when the club's finances improve sufficiently.
Initially, the ground was the home of the Holbeck Rugby Club, which played in the Northern Rugby Union, the forerunner of the Rugby Football League. One of Leeds' first nicknames, 'The Peacocks', comes from the original name of Elland Road – 'The Old Peacock Ground'. It was named by the original owners of the ground, Bentley's Brewery, after its pub The Old Peacock, which still faces the site. Newly formed Leeds City agreed to rent and later own Elland Road. After their disbandment, it was sold to Leeds United. Elland Road's largest, and most recent renovation involved demolishing the old Lowfields Road stand to build a new 17,000-seater, two-tiered East Stand. It was completed for the 1993–94 season and was, at the time, the largest cantilever stand in the world. Elland Road later became an all-seater stadium, with nearly 7,000 seats replacing the terracing in the Kop, as directed by the Taylor Report.