TITLE: Liverpool F.C.
== INFOBOX ==
Full name: Liverpool Football Club |
Nickname: The Reds |
Founded: 3 June 1892; 134 years ago (1892-06-03) |
Ground: Anfield |
Capacity: 61,276 |
Owner(s): Fenway Sports Group (62%)
1892 Holdings (38%) |
Chairman: Tom Werner |
Head coach: Andoni Iraola |
League: Premier League |
2025–26: Premier League, 5th of 20 |
Website: liverpoolfc.com |
Home colours
: 
Away colours
 
Third colours
 |
== LEAD ==
Liverpool Football Club is a professional football club based in Liverpool, Merseyside, England. The club competes in the Premier League, the top tier of English football. Founded in 1892, the club joined the Football League the following year and has played its home games at Anfield since its formation. Liverpool is one of the most valuable and widely supported clubs in the world.

Domestically, the club has won a joint-record twenty league titles, eight FA Cups, a record ten League Cups and sixteen FA Community Shields. In international competitions, the club has won six European Cups, three UEFA Cups, four UEFA Super Cups—all English records—and one FIFA Club World Cup. Liverpool established itself as a major force in domestic football in the 1960s under Bill Shankly, before becoming perennial title challengers at home and abroad under Bob Paisley, Joe Fagan and Kenny Dalglish who led the club to a combined eleven league titles and four European Cups through the 1970s and 80s. Liverpool won two further European Cups in 2005 and 2019 under the management of Rafael Benítez and Jürgen Klopp, respectively; the latter led Liverpool to a nineteenth league title in 2020, the club's first during the Premier League era. Following Klopp's departure in 2024, Arne Slot guided Liverpool to a twentieth league title in 2025.

Already nicknamed the Reds, it was under Shankly that the team first adopted the distinctive all-red home strip which has been used ever since. Also adopted under Shankly's tenure was the club's anthem "You'll Never Walk Alone". The Reds compete in the local Merseyside derby against Everton, often referred as the Blues. As the two most decorated clubs in England, and inter-city rivals, Liverpool also has a long-standing rivalry with Manchester United.

The club's supporters have been involved in two major tragedies. At the 1985 European Cup final in Brussels, the Heysel Stadium disaster saw 39 fans – mainly Italian supporters of opponents Juventus – die after they were crushed between onrushing Liverpool fans and a concrete wall that subsequently collapsed. As a result of persistent hooliganism, English teams were banned from European club competitions initially indefinitely, but ultimately for five years, and Liverpool for an additional year. In 1989, the Hillsborough disaster claimed the lives of 97 Liverpool supporters after grossly negligent policing led to a crowd crush; the disaster led to the elimination of fenced standing terraces in favour of all-seater stadiums in the top two tiers of English football. A decades-long campaign for justice in the case of Hillsborough saw further coroner's inquests, commissions and independent panels that ultimately exonerated the fans of all blame.
== STADIUM SECTION (h2): Stadium ==
[edit]
Main article: Anfield
For information on Liverpool's abandoned proposed new stadium, see Stanley Park Stadium.
Anfield, home of Liverpool F.C.
Liverpool's home stadium is Anfield, which was built in 1884 on land adjacent to Stanley Park. Situated 2 miles (3.2 km) from Liverpool city centre, it was originally used by Everton before the latter moved to Goodison Park after a dispute over rent with Anfield owner John Houlding. Left with an empty ground, Houlding founded Liverpool in 1892 and the club has played at Anfield ever since. The capacity of the stadium at the time was 20,000, although only 100 spectators attended Liverpool's first match at Anfield.
The Kop is the stadium section where Liverpool's most vocal supporters, often referred to as "Kopites", have traditionally gathered. Historically, the Kop was a terraced stand before it was converted to seating, and it has long been recognized as the heart of Anfield's fan base. The Kop has been called "one of the most famous ends of a stadium in world football" by BBC Sport, and Liverpool traditionally attack towards it in the second half of games. It was originally built in 1906 due to the high turnout for matches and was called the Oakfield Road Embankment. Its first game was on 1 September 1906 when the home side beat Stoke City 1–0. In 1906, the banked stand at one end of the ground was formally renamed the Spion Kop after a hill in KwaZulu-Natal. The hill was the site of the Battle of Spion Kop in the Second Boer War, where over 300 men of the Lancashire Regiment died, many of them from Liverpool. At its peak, the stand could hold 28,000 spectators and was one of the largest single-tier stands in the world. Many stadiums in England had stands named after Spion Kop, but Anfield's was the largest of them at the time; it could hold more supporters than some entire football grounds.
Anfield could accommodate more than 60,000 supporters at its peak and had a capacity of 55,000 until the 1990s, when, following recommendations from the Taylor Report, all clubs in the Premier League were obliged to convert to all-seater stadiums in time for the 1993–94 season, reducing its capacity to 45,276. The findings of the report precipitated the redevelopment of the Kemlyn Road Stand, which was rebuilt in 1992, coinciding with the centenary of the club, and was known as the Centenary Stand until 2017 when it was renamed the Sir Kenny Dalglish Stand. An extra tier was added to the Anfield Road end in 1998, which further increased the capacity of the ground but gave rise to problems when it was opened. A series of support poles and stanchions were inserted to give extra stability to the top tier of the stand after movement of the tier was reported at the start of the 1999–2000 season.
This is Anfield sign, installed by Shankly in 1972, is located above the entrance to the players' tunnel
Because of restrictions on expanding the capacity at Anfield, Liverpool announced plans to move to the proposed Stanley Park Stadium in May 2002. Planning permission was granted in July 2004, and in September 2006, Liverpool City Council agreed to grant Liverpool a 999-year lease on the proposed site. Following the takeover of the club by George Gillett and Tom Hicks in February 2007, the proposed stadium was redesigned. The new design was approved by the Council in November 2007. The stadium was scheduled to open in August 2011 and would hold 60,000 spectators, with HKS, Inc. contracted to build the stadium. Construction was halted in August 2008, as Gillett and Hicks had difficulty in financing the £300 million needed for the development. In October 2012, BBC Sport reported that Fenway Sports Group, the new owners of Liverpool, had decided to redevelop their current home at Anfield rather than building a new stadium in Stanley Park. As part of the redevelopment, the capacity of Anfield was to increase from 45,276 to approximately 60,000 and would cost approximately £150 million. When construction was completed on the new Main stand, the capacity of Anfield was increased to 54,074. This £100 million expansion added a third tier to the stand. This was all part of a £260 million project to improve the Anfield area. Jürgen Klopp the manager at the time described the stand as "impressive". The 'This is Anfield' sign, installed by Shankly in 1972 to instil fear into the opposition, was temporarily removed during the reconstruction of the Main stand before it was restored to the new players' tunnel upon its completion.
In June 2021, it was reported that Liverpool City Council had given planning permission for the club to renovate and expand the Anfield Road stand, boosting the capacity by around 7,000 and taking the overall capacity at Anfield to 61,276. The expansion, which is estimated to cost £60 million, was described as "a huge milestone" by managing director Andy Hughes, and would also see rail seating being trialled in the Kop for the 2021–22 Premier League season. The first league game to feature an attendance of over 60,000 at Anfield, following the near completion of the Anfield Road stand redevelopment, was a Premier League match against Brighton & Hove Albion on 31 March 2024.